#summary Project life cycle

=== Ananta's life cycle ===


Ananta will start small. It will have many intermediate releases that are something very different compared to its [vision projected future]. 

I remember one arts class in grammar school. In the beginning of the semester we were each given a huge canvas and got an assignment to start drawing on it. It was to be a project lasting the whole year, and we were supposed to add more content to the drawing every week. The teacher told us to draw anything we wanted, but asked to start with the 'big picture', and progress towards smaller details.

I started with a landscape with few hills, a cloud and a tree. It was simple but looked like a working piece of art (for a 10-year-old!) after just 2 hours of work. 

Few months later it had a river in the foreground teeming with life: ducks, alligators, turtles, etc. It also had a small fisherman's hut with its occupant angling on a pier.

One year later I had added a huge metropolitan city in the background with many skyscrapers, complete with rows of 40-story windows with incredibly small details. Aircraft were flying over the sky dropping skydivers, and there was a distant thunderstorm far in the horizon. It had more details than Don Rosa's Donald Duck stories.

Ananta will be something similar. The initial release will be simple but a working game. Maybe not the full economic simulator described in the pipe dream page, but something that will be fun play nevertheless. The beauty of games of this genre is that once the basic engine is built and turned into a working game, you can always keep expanding and adding more features to it. The intention is that Ananta will never be finished. In fact, that's one meaning behind the working title in the first place: Ananta is a sanskrit word for 'eternal', 'endless' or 'infinite'.

A game project with no deadlines or set goals. How cool is that? ;)