#summary Development principles of Ananta

== 2d ==

Why not 3d? 

With the help of external OpenGL modules, BlitzMax is very capable of doing fast and visually appealing 3d. Still, I chose 2d. Why?

Yes, it's 2d, yet I have the nerve to compare it to Elite. So go ahead and sue me. Visual appearance aside, keeping the game in 2d has many benefits over 3d. 

Ananta started out as a one-man-project and will probably stay that way for some time, at least until I get the game on tracks to let it evolve by itself. 3d would mean that I'd be dependent on a scarce resource of 3d modellers. Unfortunately I have neither the skill, talent, will nor time to learn it by myself. 

On top of that, there really are no modellers out there willing to participate in a casual on/off project which occasionally might not show any progress for a long time. Even getting a talented 2d pixel artist or two to take part in this could prove to be difficult. 

Most importantly, 2d allows more freedom in game design. The intention is to focus on the immersion of a huge, dynamic and living universe, instead of polishing the glossy visual aspects of 1st person action. Keeping it simple allows me to concentrate on things I feel are most important. I will need every CPU cycle I can squeeze off to simulate the physics and economy of the underlying universe, and in spite of what modern computers are capable of, doing everything in 3d would consume more CPU time and memory. 

To sum it all up, as a man with a day-job (and a life, mind you ;), I feel Ananta development already consumes more than enough of my spare time. I barely have the time to commit to a project of this scale, let alone to a full-blown 3d space sim.