#summary The pipe dream of what Ananta could look like in the distant future.
#labels Phase-Requirements

= The vision =


=== Universe ===
Procedurally generated (nearly) infinite universe, with hard-coded "inner systems", [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frontier:_Elite_II Elite II Frontier] style. Universe is comprised of sectors (or solar systems, if you will) connected with either hyperspace jumps or wormhole-type jumpgates. Each sector has a mixture of one or more stars and different types of planets. Procedurally generated sectors are created on-the-fly.

=== Mechanics ===
Newtonian orbital mechanics with scaled-down distances. All planetary bodies can be realistic in size (compared to each other), but distances are radically scaled down. The diameter of the whole solar system would be less than the orbit of Mercury. Space travel should take minutes instead of days. Ship sizes and performance will be hugely exaggerated. They'll zip though the solar system in a sensible time. Possible time compression for longer distances.

=== Space flight ===
Space flight will be fully inertial obeying the laws of Newton to the letter, but there will be some computational fly-by-wire aids for the less hardcore space flight enthusiasts among you. For example, the player will have the option to turn on a 'flight compensator' that will assist in maintaining the selected _speed_ and _direction_.

There is the possibility to implement some way to limit velocity to avoid _jousting_-like space combat, which has proven to bring the fun factor down.

=== Ship design ===
Ship design is highly modular. There are dozens of ship hulls for the player to choose from, with various masses, volumes and characteristics. Each of the hull can be equipped and customized, making the total number of differently behaving ships practically infinite.

Ship hulls have slots to load various equipment into: engines, fuel tanks, thrusters, weapons, life support, avionics etc. There are specialized slots for specific types of equipment, and there are general slots to take miscellaneous equipment. Slots have maximum volumes, so cruiser engines do not fit to a fighter's engine bay. Overall design will be much like in Vicarious Vision's title [http://vvisions.logical.net/terminus Terminus].

Each installed ship component (and fuel) adds to the mass of the ship, thus affecting the ship's flight performance. Ship design is always a trade-off between a high-tech pimped out ship versus light and agile performer.

Some ships can dock to each other. For example, there are carriers that can berth squadrons of smaller craft, and there are huge orbital freighters with docked landing craft for planet surface mining and cargo runs.


=== AI ===
Dynamic multilayered AI that is tracked across the entire universe. AI does decisions based on pre-determined behavior style, whether they are more inclined towards trading, scavenging, mining, piracy, bounty hunting etc. AI does not 'cheat': the cargo they carry is bought, mined, scavenged or pirated by themselves. The fuel they burn has to be replenished. The money they carry has to be earned. AI with very little money tends to do things helping them to earn some. AI with poor equipment will try to retrofit if they have some extra money. If not, they'll try to earn it.

AI will fight sensibly, and not suicidally. They value their lives as much as you do, and make a run for it if the situation looks bleak. They can assess the dangerousness factor of their enemy, and they can be very hard to bring down when they decide to pull out from the battle. They can plead for their lives and offer not only their cargo but their other belongings as well as a tribute. Even though there will be enforced law and order, piracy can be very profitable as long as no-one gets killed.

The player can have AI wingmen who can be controlled via a GUI and hotkeys.


=== Economy ===
Living economy that fluctuates with supply/demand. Something of a hybrid between Software Refinery's [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hardwar Hardwar] and Egosoft's [http://www.egosoft.com/games/x/info_en.php X-series]. Raw materials are mined or grown, which are refined into components and other semi-finished goods, from which the finished products are made of. Finished goods are always consumed by someone, either by general population, other businesses, military or AI pilots. Population's base demand for different kinds of goods is affected by state of the world's economy, which will fluctuate semi-randomly. 


=== Business ===
Everything in the game can be manufactured, owned and traded, including ships, factories and space stations. Player and AI can buy property and use it for their own businesses. Businesses can run without the player's intervention using hired employees and AI traders as suppliers. Player can run any business ranging from raw material production to final assembly. Businesses can exist on planets, space stations and even larger ships. 

The player can buy any number of spacecraft and hire AI pilots to do trading, resource gathering or battle.

=== Politics ===
There are factions with variable relations towards each other. Each sector can be owned by of one of these factions. There can be wars and alliances, that include not only governments but business empires as well. The player can become a part of such a faction, or even start one. Any faction (including the player) can gain the possession of territory through trade, diplomacy or battle. Becoming such a space mogul and syndicate owner will take a lot of time and effort, though.